# 1.18 Planning Document

Our core plans for 1.18 / Season 2 will be to provide a similar experience as Season 1, but achieve certain objectives
differently.

1. **Soft Reset**: We want to preserve the player's content as long as they are part of the community, however, we want
   to do world reset for 1.18, as 1.18 introduces the new cave generation. At this time, we'll be doing a soft world
   reset strategy.

   - **Phase 1:** When 1.18 is released, we will create a pure vanilla server for folks to play on. This will start
     Season 2.
   - **Phase 2:** When PaperMC support is added, we will start adding the essential plugins and begin recruitment. This
     may take a month or longer.
   - **Phase 3:** After 3 or so months of 1.18, we will connect the Season 1 world via separate set of dimensions.
     - Nether/End Dimensions may be purged, but depends on our community.
     - Chunks will be purged (to bring the world size down).
     - We may add a world border, to keep the world size down.
     - In the scenario that we are unable to (such as technical difficulties), we'll explore different methods.

1. **Virtual Currency**: We want to encourage a strong player economy. At this time, we feel that going to Vault and
   using Virtual Currency would open up more possibilities on the server. Instead of trading 1 diamond for 4 stacks of
   dirt, you would use `$0.10` to buy a stack of dirt. This would allow players to buy smaller batches of items as well
   as provide automated rewards for certain activities (items get tricky after a while).

1. **First Ender Dragon**: The first Ender Dragon fight should be a scheduled community event. This is to provide a
   social experience and have folks work together as a community to achieve a common goal, versus one person focusing on
   speed running the game.

# Community Ideas

Below are a list of community ideas that were discussed. If you have ideas, feel free to post them in #mc-118-planning
channel on our discord. It should be noted that these are just ideas and are not final; They are only listed to
showcase. These can be further discussed and hashed out with the community. Once we get closer to 1.18, we'll hash out
all the ideas and do polls to identify how to move forward.

## Community Driven

1. Helper Organization
1. Community-built Villager Trading Hall

## Death Chests

1. Disabling death chests for 1.18 or gating it behind a unique rank.

## Events

1. I enjoy the weekly challenges because they caused me to be in biomes I wasn't anticipating during the week. I do
   think having them run for two weeks would be great, instead of just one week. That might keep people from piling into
   such huge automated farms.
2. For bigger events, I feel the building competitions were really neat. They let people showcase their own skill and
   creativity.

## Rank

1. More ranks or levels associated to ranks.
2. Additional Income associated to ranks.
3. Costs money & time to rank up.

## Virtual Currency

1. Trade in specific resources for currency (but have no other way to gain currency, other than trading). Such as
   trading 250 cobblestone for $1 or 1 diamond for $1, but then the economy becomes based around whatever that is. So a
   stack of dirt (with a diamond currency) would be worth 0.1 or something really low.
2. Jobs Reborn (https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/jobs-reborn.4216/).
3. Max amount of trades per day (to prevent abuse).
